We talked about variants
versus component sets,
I already told you that it
ends up getting fiddly.
Reports from the field say that the UI
drags to a crawl, as well, I believe that.
And so, like I said, we can also use
a slash or put them in a given frame.
And they'll all get organized, as well.
This is a screenshot from when
I did a bad thing, right?
This is what happens if you take, and
to be clear, I could have gone farther,
right?
I could add even more.
This is around the time where I'm like,
I can't do this anymore.
And that's when I switched to just kind of
the strategy we're looking at now, right?
Cuz, yeah, I would drag in a button.
It would be that primary default
non-hovered state, it was no way to live.
Versus, as we saw, we can do this instead.
Where we can just swap in between
instances of a component and
we'll see how this pattern
becomes powerful in a little bit.
Okay, so we saw how to make
a component set in this case.
One of the things that we can do is
play games with inheritance, right?
If you think about it,
that metaphor that I made to prototypal
inheritance in JavaScript, really,
really, really holds up, right?
So, for instance, let's take, who thought
they were gonna JavaScript pop quiz?
JavaScript pop quiz time.
Arrays, they have methods, right?
Map for each, right?
Where do those methods live?
>> On the prototype.
>> Yep, on array.prototype.
Should you ever do anything with
a write up prototype other than
just let it be the object in
which all arrays inherit from?
Ideally, you do not touch it, right?
It exists so that all of the arrays
that you use in your JavaScript can
inherit from it,
effectively acts like a class, right?
Like in Ruby, or Python, or what have you.
We could take the same approach and
basically have a platonic
ideal of a button in which we
should never use it, right?
And then all of our buttons inherit
from that platonic ideal, right?
And then if we ever need to change
the radius, we just change that unused
itself button, and
they all will change as a result, right?
So remember before when I change
just the primary button and
nothing happened to all the other ones?
Real quick, let's see what the strategy
would look like in this case.
Is this a button?
Cuz at some points I got clever and tried
to just make SVG so you can cheat, cool.
So I've got a button here, as well.
And I'll go and detach that, as well.
And so, the trick is,
there's a few tricks here.
Inside your file you can see these base
components that you're never
supposed to use, right?
If you prefix it with an underscore or
a period, like the Unix file system, or
the way that we try to tell our
coworkers this method is private, right?
You put an underscore before and
hope nobody actually uses it, kinda thing.
If you prefix a component with that and
you publish this library to your team for
everyone to use,
anything prefixed with a period or
an underscore will not
go out into the world.
So you can hide it from outside of
the file that you're working in, but
inside of the file you're
still out of luck, right?
My strategy for
this is to make the base component so
unappealing that no one
would think to use it.
And then I will usually put all of them,
and I didn't really make them
unappealing in my version.
But if I go down to
the course materials here,
All the base components are at
least in their own frame.
So that they are, at least,
separated out in that menu.
Cuz if you put in a frame with a name,
they all go into that sub-directory.
So they're at least separated out,
and a lot of times, honestly,
I will use a picture of
Bill Murray as the background or
something along those lines to signify,
don't drop this into the UI.
Not that there's anything wrong with Bill
Murray, but it's not a blue button, right?
And so to signify, but then when you
publish it, it won't go out in that case.
So in this case, we'll just give it
some color that we don't plan on using.
I don't know, I can even make it white or
something along those lines.
But there's no purple buttons in my UI.
Okay, cool, so this will be kind
of our base button, in this case.
The platonic ideal of a button.
We'll call it
Base/.Button, cool.
I think you can just prefix the outer
part and it'll still not publish.
But I'm really trying to make the point
that you should not use this button.
So now this can be made a component.
And again,
we never aspire to use this button.
It exists in those same way
object.prototype or array.prototype
exists, to be the thing in which all
other buttons inherit from, right?
So now what we'll do is we'll create
an instance of this component.
As I said, we weren't ever supposed to use
it, well, except for once, there it is.
And we'll make this look
like a real button,
that we want it to look
like at this point.
So we'll swap out, in this case,
we'll make it a brand button,
Like we did before.
And we can make the three variations,
as well, if we want at this point.
I think that serves as an example.
And what I'll do in
this case is we'll say,
this one is State=Default.
Actually, let's do that Here.
Now, we'll start here and
we'll make it better in a second.
State=Default, State=Hover.
State=Active.
Make this one just
a little bit darker again.
Let me give this one
the drop shadow again.
All right, now we can do
the same thing we did before,
we'll create the set and
rename it Primary Button.
Now, if you remember the last example,
we tried to change the radius cuz that
seemed like a fun thing to change.
And only the one that I changed, changed.
All the rest of them did not update.
And we can even,
just to make a point here,
we could theoretically take this group.
Let's also say, Danger Button and
Well let's actually describe
the whole set here.
We'll change all the light blue
to this red and that red, right?
And now I can go ahead,
we'll change the border radius to zero,
and they all update, right?
We never used this component except,
again, as array prototype,
object prototype,
what have you, as the button in which
all of the other buttons inherit from.
But now we have the advantage,
let's put this in a frame called Buttons.
And now in assets,
we've got a lot of the same buttons here.
Here's the two buttons that we made.
I can bring an instance in, again,
I can put this back if I want.
In fact, let's make it 32.
Let's go really round it.
All the change, they all update.
This one is its own instance.
And I can toggle to a hover state or
an active state totally, right?
And I can also swap it out, as well.
And it will even stay in whatever
state it was in at that point, too.
So you get to both have a lot of
the power of dragging stuff in.
They're all inherit from this base
component that you never seek to
use itself.
But now you can make large-scale changes,
as well.